# FlexiForms

We will use the word **flexiform** as an adjective to describe the fact
that a representation is of **flexible formality**, i.e. can contain
**informal** (i.e. appealing to a human reader) and **formal** (i.e.
supporting syntax-driven reasoning processes) components or both.

A good example for a *flexiform document* is a mathematical text, which
contains informal representations - e.g. historical remarks or proof
sketches as well as formal definitions. Note that we understand the term
flexiform in an inclusive sense, in particular, we include fully formal
representations like algebraic specifications of software properties and
in principle also fully informal documents like e-mails into the set of
flexiform documents. We are also interested in

  - **flexiform theories**: i.e. mathematical theories that are
    represented with flexible formality. Flexiform theories tend to be
    formal objects that make use of informal representations for
    documentation or migration.
  - **flexiform libraries**: i.e. collections of flexiform documents
    whose relations may be marked up with flexible degrees of formality,
    ranging from the Dublin Core *source* relation or to theory
    morphisms.
  - **flexiform fragments**: i.e. the self-contained fragments that make
    up the flexiform objects or collections above.
  - … the list goes on … exploring this will be one of the purposes of
    [MathHub.info](https://mathhub.info).

We will use the noun **flexiform** to denote an arbitrary flexiform
object or collection as exemplified above. This concept of the class of
flexiforms is useful, since it has very good closure properties:
flexiform fragments can be composed to flexiform documents, which can be
collected to flexiform libraries, which in turn can be formalized to
flexiform theory graphs or excerpted to flexiform documents. All of
these knowledge management processes can now be described in terms of
flexiforms.

Note that as defined here, the class of flexiforms is very broad, it
includes arbitrary (informal) documents, datasets, and logical
axiomatizations. We will pragmatically restrict the set of completely
informal representations to those that are *intended to* or *could in
principle* be (semi)-formalized, excluding e.g. poetry, which are
outside our interest for [MathHub.info](https://mathhub.info). In
particular, we include completely informal documents that are written
with eventual flexiformalization in mind as the starting points of a
step-wise formalization process, first adding methodical and
mathematical rigor, and then marking up formal elements.

Concretely, the class of flexiforms includes specifications from program
verification, semantically annotated course materials, textbooks in the
"hard sciences", etc.

In [MathHub.info](https://mathhub.info), Flexiforms are usually realized
as documents in representation formats that flexibly support both formal
and informal modes of representation.
